.PH " 'NFS System Test Plan' 'Chapter template' "
.H 1 "Test Chapters"

.B
THIS CHAPTER WILL BE REMOVED FOR THE FINAL VERSION OF THE DOCUMENT.

.R
The following is a general template of how the test chapters are
to be organized and written.  I'm not an nroff expert by any means,
so feel free to help me out in that capacity.  I'm using the 'mm' macros,
for those of you who already know how to use them.

Each chapter is to exist as a separate file.  I will use the '.so' macro
to include them into the testplan.  Please use meaningful file names.

The chapter designations (following this chapter) are preliminary.  If
anyone needs additional chapter designations, let me know.  I've provided
a few samples of possible subchapter titles, just to get you thinking.

The final chapters were taken from Mike Shipley's testplan template document,
and are there to help generate testing ideas.  I hope they're useful.
.B
They'll be discarded later.
.R

.nf
  position 0 of the line
  |
  v
  .bp
  .PH " 'HEADER' 'I will supply this' "
  .H 1 "Chapter Title"

  Write an overview of what you will be testing, how you'll go
  about it, how your section fits into the scaffold/nfs structure,
  what objectives apply to this chapter, etc.  Test Numbering
  Conventions have been previously discussed.  Let me know if the
  conventions are inadequate or wrong.  You might include a
  discussion of what portion(s) of the PRD this chapter addresses.

  .H 2  "test section 1"

  An overview of the test section, if appropriate, goes here.  Things
  that might be appropriate here include
          RESPONSIBLE ENGINEER:
          DEPENDENCIES:
          ISSUES:

  .sp 2
  .H 3 "first test under test section 1"
  .sp 1

  Enter a description of the test.  Things that might be appropriate
  include 
           IMPLEMENT TIME:
           PERFORM TIME:
           TYPE OF TEST: stress, functional, interactive, etc
           EXPECTED OUTPUT:

  You'll want formatting off for graphical representations; surround
  graphs/pictures/etc with the .nf and .fi (assumedly for "no format"
  and "fill") macros as in the following example:

  .nf
   blank line
           picture goes here
   blank line
  .fi
      
  .sp 2
  .H 3  "nth test in test section 1"
  .sp 1
            
  .H 2  "test section 2, etc"
.fi
